# FID Judaica contextualization  - Haskala dataset

#### Generated by: Maral Dadvar

A colleague from UB prepared the Assignmentsresponsiblepersons.csv file which includes all the persons who should be considered for the Haskal library dataset. 

I modified and cleaned the file and created Assignmentsresponsiblepersons_revised.csv file to be used in the python script. 

The CSV-to-RDF-Haskala.py script uses this csv file and generated the final Haskala.ttl file. 

The file haskala net biog.xlsx was provided by UB colleague from haskala.net. 

I converted the file into CSV and did some trimming and the final file is haskalanet_01.csv.

CSV-to-RDF-Haskalanet script was used to convert the csv file to the Haskala_net.ttl file. 

The files Haskala.ttl and Haskala_net.ttl was enriched with GND information. 

For this purpose, we used the following SPARQL query directly on the fuseki endpoint to add the information.


INSERT
{ GRAPH <http://maral.wisslab.org/graphs/haskala>
  {# ?x jl:birthLocation ?placebn .
  ?x jl:deathLocation ?placedn .
  }
}

where{

  GRAPH <http://maral.wisslab.org/graphs/haskala> {

    ?x a foaf:Person.
    ?x owl:sameAs ?id.
   # optional {?x gndo:gndIdentifier ?gnd}
    #optional {?x jl:hasPublication ?pub}
    #?x skos:prefLabel ?pref.
   #optional {?x skos:altLabel ?alt2}
   #?x owl:sameAs ?same

   }

  GRAPH <http://maral.wisslab.org/graphs/gnd>  {

    ?id a gndo:DifferentiatedPerson.

 #?id gndo:variantNameForThePerson ?alt.
  # ?id gndo:dateOfBirth ?dateb.
  # ?id gndo:dateOfDeath ?dated.
# ?id gndo:placeOfBirth ?placeb .
 # ?placeb gndo:preferredNameForThePlaceOrGeographicName ?placebn.
 ?id gndo:placeOfDeath ?placed.
  ?placed gndo:preferredNameForThePlaceOrGeographicName ?placedn. 

  }}
  
  
Then using the GND-enrich-02.py script the final enriched file, Haskala_enriched.ttl was generated.




