# Stolpersteine in Mainz 

#### Generated by: Maral Dadvar


The stumbling blocks are a project of the artist Gunter Demnig, which began in 1992. The small commemorative plaques laid in the ground are intended to commemorate the fate of people persecuted, murdered, deported, expelled or driven into suicide during the National Socialist era: Jews, people from the resistance, homosexuals, victims of euthanasia and other religious and ethnic groups.

The square brass plates are labeled with letters stamped by hand and are carried by a cast concrete cube. The paving stones are laid in the sidewalk in front of the house, which the victims have chosen as the last residence freely. Name and year of birth, date of arrest, deportation and murder are stamped. In May 2018, there were around 69,000 bricks in Germany and 23 other European countries. The stumbling blocks are the largest decentralized memorial in the world.

In Mainz (including Mainz Kastel) since 2007, more than 200 stumbling blocks and a trip threshold have been laid.

Basis of the data is on the one hand the Wikipedia page list of stumbling blocks in Mainz (https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liste_der_Stolpersteine_in_Mainz) with photos of the stumbling blocks, the address of the Stolpersteins, 
usually a photo of the house in front of which he lies, the date of installation, the founder, comments and coordinates.



The stolperstein.ttl file is created using the Stein-wiki-01.oy script. In this script the Wikipedia page of the stolperstain is scrapped and the information is turned into rdf.

One case was manually corrected:

From the person: <http://data.judaicalink.org/data/stolpersteine/Albert_Mayer>
the follwoing links was removed from Subject attribute: <https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Datei:Kaiserstra%C3%9Fe_53_-_Eberhard_Albert_Mayer.jpg> 
