# Biographisches Handbuch der Rabbiner

#### Generated by: Maral Dadvar


The Biographisches Handbuch der Rabbiner is an online encyclopedia provided by the Salomon L. Steinheim-Institute for German-Jewish history at the University of Duisburg-Essen (http://www.steinheim-institut.de/wiki/index.php/Hauptseite) ,edited by Michael Brocke and Julius Carlebach.

The Steinheim Institute does research in the field of German-Jewish history as of the Middle Ages to the present. It investigates the complex patterns of interrelations between Jewish and general 
history from a religious and social historical, as well as literary and cultural studies perspectives. 
By virtue of paying special attention to intra-Jewish contexts, traditions and sources, the institute’s research provides new insights into how Jews in German-speaking areas and in the whole of 
Europe shaped their identities and their history in many various fields with self-confidence.

The goal of this encyclopedia is to be a complete directory of all rabbis who lived and worked in or originated from German-speaking areas since the age of enlightenment.

The encyclopedia consists of two parts:

Part 1: Die Rabbiner der Emanzipationszeit in den deutschen, böhmischen und großpolnischen Ländern (1781 – 1871), edited by Carsten Wilke.

Part 2: Die Rabbiner im Deutschen Reich (1871 – 1945), edited by Katrin Nele Jansen.

We have trasnformed this encyclopedia into JudaicaLink dataset format in two stages which you can read in more deatils in corresponding folders (Round1, Round2). 