# FID Judaica contextualization  - Compactmemory dataset 

#### Generated by: Maral Dadvar


This folder explains the contextualization process of the authors of Compactmemory dataset with their GND-id. 
The provided dataset contained only the authors with Tn, which means those who either didn't have an id or the id was not correct. 


The file cm-gnd-uni.rdf contains the common authors between GND and Tn UB, which have no duplicates, and are based 
on the stated occupation in the python script in the script folder (CM-GNDID-01.py)

The file cm-gnd-multi.rdf contains the common authors between GND and Tn UB, which have multiple entries for the 
same name, and are also based on the stated occupation in the python script in the script folder (CM-GNDID-01.py)

The compact-extarction.py script is used to create compact-extracted.rdf file which contains the ProvidedCHO, 
person identifier and person name extracted from compact memory data.  

The file cm-authors-context-GND-uni.rdf is the file generated from the script cm-contex-GND-uni.py and the GND-ID of the compactmemory collection authors are assigned to those who have an GND-ID using the cm-gnd-uni.rdf file. 


Then the files cm-authors-context-GND-uni-02.rdf and cm-authors-context-GND-multi-02.rdf are taken from previous rounds and further
filterings were applied. 

The script CM-uni-name-filter.py has been used to remove and filter authors' names which were only initials such as A.M.
THe cm-uni-names-filtered.rdf file is the results of this script: the number of ProvidedCHO have reduced to 6,947 from 7,820

The cm-authors-uni-date-filtered.ttl file is created using the cm-uni-names-filtered.ttl file and CM-uni-name-filter.py script. 
This file is the list of authors whose date of birth is later than the publication date. (70 entries)

The cm-uni-name-filter-complete.ttl file is the final file from which the 70 names have been removed using the CM-uni-name-filter-complete.py script.

The script CM-multi-name-filter.py has been used to remove and filter authors' names which were only initials such as A.M.
THe cm-multi-names-filtered.rdf file is the results of this script: the number of ProvidedCHO have reduced to 3,334 from 4,337



The final results were sent to the UB colleagues for evaluation. After the evaluation, the final results might have been subjected to 
some changes and improvements. 

Moreover, during the project, some of the authors' id who were manually identified by the UB colleagues were added to the dataset. 
